Hey there, I'm Ben Holmes, product
engineer at Warp, and I want to do a
quick comparison video between Claude
Code and Warp's built-in coding agent.
Let's talk about Claude Code first.
Claude is a CLI tool, so you'll need a
terminal to start like warp, and you'll
need to install the Claude CLI. Then you
can run Claude to start prompting the
coding agent. You can type your prompt
in this box and let Claude code do its
thing. It's able to read files, search
your codebase for key terms, and once it
has enough context, it's able to make
diffs on your behalf. Here, we're
editing the readme file. It presents a
diff that I'm able to manually review,
or I can hit shift tab to auto accept
edits for the rest of the session. You
can also enter planning mode to have the
agent do some research and present a
markdownbased plan before it starts
working. Warp's coding agent is built
into Warp directly. So, if you already
use Warp Day today as a terminal, you
can submit an AI query instead. And if
it looks like an AI query, we'll smartly
kick you over to agent mode, which you
can enter manually at any time with the
keyboard shortcut or this little agent
button right here. Once you submit a
query, it will kick off a warp coding
task. So, it's able to read files,
search your codebase, and create code
diffs similar to claw code. Now, one key
difference is what you can do with these
diffs. You're able to accept or auto
approve for the rest of the session, but
you can also edit that diff directly. We
can give you nice affordances like a
built-in editor if you want to edit the
diff manually, remove comments that an
agent might have added, etc. And when
you hit accept, it will notify the agent
about those diffs so it doesn't try to
overwrite them later in the session.
Another key difference is reviewing your
changes. Cloud code requires you to use
git cli or a tool like VS Code to review
your diffs, but Warp has a built-in
button for this. You can hit review
changes at the end of a session or hit
this charm right here and you'll get a
code diff view to see all of the changes
the agent has worked on. You can also
diff against the main line if you're
working on a multi-step PR and you want
to look at all the changes that you've
worked on in that session. As for
planning, Warp has an option to allow
the agent to prompt you for a plan if a
query sounds intensive enough. For this
query here, we decided to prompt for a
plan. You can proceed without one or
we'll use cloud for opus to do some
research and present a similar markdown
plan to claude code. Now let's talk
about context gathering. In cloud code,
it's able to crawl your codebase and
figure out what context may be relevant,
but you can add explicit context by
using the at symbol. This gives you a
file picker across all the files in your
current directory. So you can reference
those and directly ask questions. Warp's
coding agent also lets you reference
context explicitly. Hit the at symbol
and you can reference files in your
current project. But you can also
reference symbols. This is very
powerful. If there's a specific function
or object that you want to reference,
this will inline the name of that
function, the file it belongs to, and
the exact line number so you can ask
more specific questions. And if you want
to locate a file directly, there's a
project explorer available. This pulls
up a simple file tree to look at all the
files in your project. and clicking on
it will open an inline editor to either
edit the file directly or reference
specific parts of that file for context
in your LLM queries. This will also
insert the line number and the file name
so that the agent knows where to look.
Now let's discuss model selection.
Claude has a number of options available
from the slash menu including model.
This lets you select between Claude's
models. So Claude Forson opus and opus
plan mode for researching tasks in warp.
You can hit the model dropown to select
your model here. This gives you access
to a number of different models
including Claude and Claude for Opus
along with the Gemini and GBD5 series of
models with different reasoning levels
for GPT5. Now let's discuss
configuration options. In cloud code,
you can configure all aspects of the
tool from the slash command. This lets
you see simple options like the current
status, a model switcher to change which
model you're going to use, a permissions
menu to choose what tools are allowed or
denied, and also an agents creator to
spin off a sub agent for specific coding
tasks. Heading over to warp, there's a
couple different ways to configure your
setup. You can use a slash command here
as well to add MCP tools, prompts, as
well as global rules. Cloud code scopes
the rules to specific git repos, but in
warp you can have a global rules
directory to describe how all projects
should behave and that's accessible from
here. Warp also offers codebase indexing
which you can kick off right here to
create embeddings for your codebase to
improve file search. As for agent
configuration, you can edit that using
profiles. Here I'm in the warp settings
menu and I've set up a default profile
with my preferences for base planning
and read and write permissions. I've
also created another profile that's a
little bit more relaxed, always allowing
code diffs without my manual review.
Comparing these tools, they both offer
extensive configuration over what an
agent is allowed to do, but I would give
an edge to Claude Code for also allowing
sub agents and hooks. Now, let's discuss
managing agents over time. Since Claude
Code is a CLI tool, you'll need to watch
that CLI tab to see if the agent is ever
blocked on a coding task. Though, it
will update your tab description to see
what the agent is currently doing. Since
the warp coding agent is built into the
tool, we can give you more information
about what an agent is doing, like a
status indicator to show where the agent
is in the process, a more descriptive
query in the tool tip, and also toast
notifications whenever an agent is
blocked, so you can quickly jump over to
that tab and take action. You can also
choose to receive desktop notifications
with or without sound if you prefer.
Now, let's run encoding tasks to compare
performance. I have warp on the left and
claw code on the right. And I'm going to
give each of them a sentry issue. Going
to pass off the URL. And I'm not going
to give much more direction than that. I
ran this task three times across each of
the coding agents to see how they
perform on code quality and the amount
of time it takes. You can see a
breakdown here where each agent takes
between two and four minutes using Cloud
Force Sonnet with a slight edge to
claude code on the average time. Looking
at the quality of research before
coding, we see similar performance
between the two of them. Each were able
to identify the Sentry MCP server,
although there was one example in the
Cloud Code trial that used a fetch
query. Though asking it to use the MCP
server explicitly got it back on track,
they were also able to identify the root
cause of the issue, which is this render
keyboard shortcut function. This is a
utility that was expecting a keyboard
shortcut to always be bound when the
user could have unbound it from their
settings. Looking at the code output
first for clawed code, we see a mixed
bag on the quality of the solution.
Though all of them were working here, we
can see it's stubbing out some empty UI
if we try to render the keystroke when
it's not available. But it would have
been better to avoid calling this render
function entirely. It was able to half
identify that by adding a check here
before calling it, but it also added the
extra check below, which was
unnecessary. Warp offered three
different solutions that all compiled
and ran as well. In this example, it
decided to return an optional type from
the render function, so we could decide
whether or not to use the result. This
is probably my favorite example out of
all of the trials, although if I wrote
it myself, I would have put an if check
instead. Also note one outlier from the
warp side that decided to render an
empty flex row with this margin value. I
don't even know where it came from, but
cla isn't always predictable. And as a
bit of a wild card, I decided to use
GPT5 in the warp coding agent as well.
This is obviously something you can't do
with Claude code. So maybe it's not a
direct comparison, but you do have
multiple models available in warp code.
So it is worth trying out GPT or Gemini
to see what works in your codebase. And
in this trial using the low reasoning
model, I was able to get some really
great results. You can see the breakdown
here where GBD5 is performing at a very
consistent minute 12 seconds to 20
seconds with high quality output. All of
the solutions compile and ran no
problem. And they gave a pretty similar
answer every time. It is stubbing out
empty UI, which as I noted earlier isn't
the solution I would have done, but it
was a concise and working solution. So,
conclusion time. Warp code or clawed
code? If you know you want to use the
clawed set of models and you prefer
working in a terminal environment
instead of a UI, you might want to
choose claw code. But if you value the
coding features of Warp, like a file
tree for context, code diffs, and
selecting different models like GPT5,
then Warp Code is going to be a good
choice for you.